Chloe Lannert: Alright.
Chloe Lannert: So we have Stephanie Wong and Mark Ackler. I gave a little bit of an intro this morning on our Kpi call, but these folks
Chloe Lannert: it. It's basically their job to explain weird businesses, and explain weird technical stuff. And they have years and years of experience and are are brilliant at it mark, I think has seen
Chloe Lannert: for sure more demo day pitches than me, probably getting up there with Neil in terms of the number and the experience there. So this will be perfect as we're getting into our 1st pitch practices coming up soon. And Stephanie, the ones of you who were lucky enough to meet with her after the kickoff know the magic.
Chloe Lannert: so I'll hand it right up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, if I could, just I'll jump in real quick Chloe, just to thank both Stephanie and Mark for doing this, and I have to say, like, I had a really nice dinner with Stephanie many months ago, where she kind of floated. This idea and possibility. She and Mark were kind of thinking about this as an opportunity, since they both participated in our screening committee.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They helped get you all into this program. They were part of the process of us deciding to invest in you all so big kudos and gratitude to them for that. But on top of that I just wanted to emphasize that we cannot afford these people's time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's really important, for Chloe and I, that you all do your absolute best to take full advantage of this rare opportunity that we have with 2 experts who are willing to give 1st and go out of their way to help you all with storytelling and and much more probably with your businesses, so I really hope that you all engage them deeply with this. You take all of this very seriously, and for any founder who isn't in the room. Make sure that they know what they missed out on from all the wisdom and knowledge that they're about to share.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So thank you, Stephanie, and Mark, it means the world that you all are here. Thank you. Condones.
Chloe Lannert: Happy to be here, and I'm really thrilled that we got the chance to get together to do this, especially with Mark. We actually connected after screening committee because of our joint love for storytelling and working with founders. So it's Kismet that this came together. So thanks for the opportunity.
Chloe Lannert: So today we're talking about technical storytelling for founders. It might be the 1st time you've heard this term. But if it's something that has been embedded, I realize, looking back, it's been embedded in most of the jobs that I've had throughout my career. And it's really become a core concept for how I do my work today.
Chloe Lannert: And I'm excited because I'm joined by Mark. I'll let him give his own intro. But just to start currently, I'm the head of developer skills and community at Google Cloud. So we're part of product marketing. We work with developers. We're
Chloe Lannert: launching tons of products in the cloud space and specifically targeting developers can often be tricky with really highly technical concepts. How do you engage with a technical audience in a way that's still engaging? But also, how do you make things understandable to broad audiences as well. I've done a ton of content in my career. I did content creation full time for Google Cloud for about 6 years.
Chloe Lannert: doing tons of Youtube, but also podcasting written form and speaking and then hosting various podcasts, like the Gcp podcast and this data centers podcast called where the Internet lives, too.
Chloe Lannert: I will kick it off to mark.
Mark Achler: Thanks, Stephanie, and and thanks Neil and Chloe.
Mark Achler: I'll give you. The short version is.
Mark Achler: I am a serial entrepreneur. I have built 4 companies. My 1st one did okay, my second one failed miserably. My 3rd one did well, and my 4th one did better, and I've been a venture capitalist and a chief innovation officer for a company called Redbox.
Mark Achler: and a professor at Kellogg, and an author, and I have been
Mark Achler: I was just thinking about. I gave my 1st pitch to raise money in 1986, and since then I have either been giving
Mark Achler: or as a venture capitalist across 3 venture funds. I've probably seen about 1,500 to 1,800 deals a year, and so I
Mark Achler: love
Mark Achler: listening to the art of and the craftsmanship of storytelling. And you guys are in for a treat. I saw Stephanie's deck. She shared it with us. We're just talking about beforehand, and I'm with you. I'm on the edge of my seat. I am eager to to learn, together with you guys.
Chloe Lannert: Thanks, Mark. Well, why don't we kick it off? Because I know Mark has great framework that we'll dive into. But I wanted to open it up 1st by just explaining what technical storytelling is.
Chloe Lannert: It's really explaining complex topics in a way that's clear and relatable. I know it's really easy to dive straight into the technical details of how your product works. But oftentimes what you're doing is creating a little bit of a barrier between you and your audience. So just recognizing that, how do you bridge the gap between the technical details of your products and the audience's understanding and what they care about? So that's what we're talking about today.
Chloe Lannert: So just as a quick icebreaker, just to get your wheels turning, think about a time that you were captivated by a pitch. Or maybe it was a video, an ad.
Chloe Lannert: What about that pitch really resonated?
Chloe Lannert: So I just want you to kind of think of it in the moment. If anybody has an example that they want to share, that would be great.
Chloe Lannert: I can say, just like, I think a lot of people use apple as an example. But I also think, like Red Bull is a really good example of storytelling. They're not just storytelling, but their story doing right. They're showing their brand by doing these extreme sports, and oftentimes it has nothing to do with your product. But they're trying to connect with their audience at a very human level.
Chloe Lannert: So it's really about what you represent and your connection to the people that you're trying to reach. So that's what we're gonna dig into today.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, so the things that we'll touch on first, st I'd love to give Mark the floor to talk about his 3 passes, which are core principles that many founders often, miss.
Chloe Lannert: and then we'll dive into the storytelling. 101, which is what Mark was talking about is a framework that I have for making your technology, your products, really just anything that you want to communicate about easy, accessible, and engaging. And then we'll do a quick fireside chat and leave room for questions, and we'll also scatter some exercises throughout the whole day.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, so Mark, you, have this amazing concept called the 3 passes that you've created over the last
Chloe Lannert: year or so. Right that. But it's all based decades of experience that you've had with founders. So why don't you tell us more about this.
Mark Achler: Thanks, Stephanie.
Mark Achler: So.
Mark Achler: going back before we we talk about the 3 passes, I want to tell a very fast story about the very 1st time I raised money and what happened?
Mark Achler: So I
Mark Achler: it was 1986. I was starting my 1st company. We're building the second product ever to ship for windows, 1.0 for early pioneers, and we raised.
Mark Achler: We're needing to raise $200,000. We got 50 from a
Mark Achler: We each put in 25, my partner and I our life savings. We got 50 from a seed fund. Yes, there were seed funds in 1986 and 50 from the State of Illinois in a grant.
Mark Achler: and I wanted to raise $50,000 from my local bank.
Mark Achler: and I did. I was 27 years old. I had no clue how Banks worked. And I walked into the bank.
Mark Achler: And I said, Hi.
Mark Achler: I'm starting a software company. This is in 1986, when very few software companies existed. I'm starting a brand new company. We have no revenue. It's pre-revenue. We have. The product's not finished yet. I don't have any assets. I have no collateral.
Mark Achler: Can I have my money, please? And the banker just like
Mark Achler: laughed me out of the room and just said, sorry, kid, get out of here. And I walked out the door
Mark Achler: and I realized, Oh, I have no clue. I don't understand how
Mark Achler: bankers think. How do they make decisions? Who gets the money? What criteria do they use?
Mark Achler: And I turned around. I went back into the bank and I found the banker, and I said.
Mark Achler: I'm all in.
Mark Achler: I'm really interested. I'm really curious. Can you explain to me.
Mark Achler: how do banks work? And how do you make decisions? And what criteria. Do you use? The guy looked at me like
Mark Achler: nobody had ever asked them that before, and he goes sure, and he sat down with me, and he taught me banking 101, and there was a loan committee in that bank, and there were 6 people on the loan committee, and I interviewed all 6 people, and I found out they needed a business plan, and I wrote a hundred page business plan. This is before Powerpoints. Yes, there was life before Powerpoints.
Mark Achler: and when I was done I really understood how Banks worked, and they gave me the loan.
Mark Achler: and I didn't take no for an answer.
Mark Achler: And one more important thing.
Mark Achler: and that is I viewed that relationship as bi-directional. It wasn't, only it wasn't just a transaction.
Mark Achler: I built relationships.
Mark Achler: and I became their go to resource. So this was early days of software companies, and these bankers had no clue about software companies. And so what happened is I built a trusted relationship.
Mark Achler: And as they started getting more and more requests from software companies, they would call me up, and I became their resource, their trusted resource. And we built a relationship. And so the reason I want to talk about I'm starting off with this story. This is all about storytelling.
Mark Achler: But Stephanie mentioned trust and relationships.
Mark Achler: And it's not a transaction most entrepreneurs think. Oh, I'm going to go. I'm going to make a pitch. They're probably not going to get me. They're probably going to say No, you know those rat bastards. They don't get me. They don't understand me.
Mark Achler: but you have to realize that it's more than just a transaction, and empathy is really important.
Mark Achler: And so that brings me to
Mark Achler: sort of my framework for how to think about telling a story.
Mark Achler: and I call it 3 passes. And the
Mark Achler: by the way, can you? There's a a honking. Can you guys hear that? Honking or no? Okay, good. I'm glad you can't hear it. Okay? So
Mark Achler: the the 3 passes are essence. There's 3 e's essence, empathy and emotion.
Mark Achler: So let's start with the 1st pass. So here's what I want you to do. Here's what I tell. All entrepreneurs
Mark Achler: is, go, read the books, listen to the podcast. Talk, to your mentors.
Mark Achler: you know, go, create the very best presentation you can.
Mark Achler: Put everything down, get it all out of your system.
Mark Achler: and then I want you to go through your presentation 3 times. The 1st e is essence.
Mark Achler: So the mistake that all entrepreneurs make myself included is that
Mark Achler: we think that the more facts that you give, the more credible you are.
Mark Achler: And so oftentimes what you see, especially with technical founders. And I'm sure Stephanie is going to talk a lot about this is fact fact is just really incredibly dense with information. Your deck.
Mark Achler: what I say is, look your audience.
Mark Achler: We just don't, you know we we either we're not smart enough or we don't have. They're only have so much bandwidth that we can listen to you guys.
Mark Achler: The bottom line is, you should think, in headlines
Mark Achler: you should stack, rank, and prioritize. So take all those facts that you just regurgitated out there.
Mark Achler: stack, rank, and prioritize them.
Mark Achler: What are the if if there are 2 or 3 or 4, there's no magic number.
Mark Achler: If you could stack, rank, and prioritize, what are? What are the 3 things that you want? Somebody to remember?
Mark Achler: Everything else is noise.
Mark Achler: Everything else is a distraction.
Mark Achler: and it should go in your appendix, because, remember, the goal of the 1st meeting is to get to a second meeting.
Mark Achler: and the goal of the 1st meeting is you want to hook them.
Mark Achler: You want somebody to be really interested, and they will. And you want them to learn more.
Mark Achler: And so part of learning more is you have to keep it really simple.
Mark Achler: Think in terms of headlines. If there's take each slide. And you know I'm in the camp of less is more.
Mark Achler: 8 slides, 9 slides. Keep it really, really simple. And each slide there should be one major concept.
Mark Achler: So essence keep it simple.
Mark Achler: The next E, when you go through the pass, do a second pass is really hard, and that's empathy.
Mark Achler: So out of that experience with the bank. When I told you I was trying to get a loan.
Mark Achler: I came up with 3 rules of empathy. My 3 rules of empathy are. It's not about you.
Mark Achler: I promise.
Mark Achler: It's always about the person that you're sitting across the table from, or the person in the audience. It's who they are.
Mark Achler: You know we are. So we are so hyper focused as entrepreneurs, we are so hyper focused on who we are, what our story is, what the facts are, what we want.
Mark Achler: But it's not about you, it's about them. It's about your audience.
Mark Achler: My second rule of empathy is, do your homework.
Mark Achler: And so this is really, when I went I told you a story about getting a loan.
Mark Achler: And, by the way, after I got that loan we shipped our product.
Mark Achler: I was able to raise venture capital in 1987, when there were 20 Vcs in the entire country.
Mark Achler: and I was able to raise venture capital in 1987, because I really did my homework.
Mark Achler: I had empathy. I understood, I like, how do Vcs think?
Mark Achler: What do they care about?
Mark Achler: Do you know that Vcs have investment thesis? So you know it could be? What stage do they invest in? Do they invest in pre seed or seed, or a rounds, or later stage or private equity, do what is do they invest by geography like only Silicon Valley? Or do they like the Midwest or outside the United States. Do they invest by industry group
Mark Achler: like Fintech or healthcare?
Mark Achler: It's like you have to really understand
Mark Achler: the investment thesis of the person sitting in the audience or sitting across the table from you. How do they think? What do they care about? What do they measure? You know the ultimate way of testing your knowledge of how Vcs operate and how they make decisions.
Mark Achler: Oftentimes we have Monday morning meetings where I'll sit across the table with my partners, and I'll say, you know
Mark Achler: I saw this company, and I'll go into 2 or 3 sentences, and those 2 or 3 sentences are packed full of code words like, you know, big market opportunity. Great founders. They have a really strong team. They've got some early traction, you know. I'll say, like 3 or 4 sentences, and
Mark Achler: the question is like, when I'm describing you, your company to my partners.
Mark Achler: How am I speaking, and what kind of code am I using?
Mark Achler: So do your homework. And one of the best ways to do your homework
Mark Achler: is you can talk to the Ceos of our portfolio companies. So
Mark Achler: on every single Vc's website. They list all their portfolio companies call up a CEO or 2 of our portfolio companies and say, ask start asking them questions.
Mark Achler: How'd you do it? How'd you get their money? What kind of questions did they ask you? What are they, good people? Would you work with them again?
Mark Achler: Okay, do your homework.
Mark Achler: Have empathy.
Mark Achler: Put yourself. It's not about you, it's about them. Put yourself in their shoes.
Mark Achler: And then the 3rd pass is the hardest of all, and that's emotion
Mark Achler: and most entrepreneurs. Oftentimes you guys are technical, or sometimes you're financial in your orientation.
Mark Achler: and you look at me when I say entrepreneurs like emotion. They look at me, their eyes glaze over like what are you talking about?
Mark Achler: And I promise you great storytellers know.
Mark Achler: and I'm sure Stephanie is going to be talking all about this.
Mark Achler: It's emotion that get people to make a decision emotion.
Mark Achler: So what I say is, when you go through each of your slides, be purposeful and intentional about what emotion you're trying to create with the end user. Do you want the end user to feel greed like, Oh, my God, I can't wait to get into this thing, or Fomo fear of missing out. Do you want them to feel smart
Mark Achler: right
Mark Achler: purposely and thoughtfully curate each one of your slides, for what emotion you're trying to create. And I'll give you an example.
Mark Achler: Most decks have a team slide.
Mark Achler: and so I say to entrepreneurs, why? Why is there a team slide? And the answer always is, well, credibility? Because, you know, I want people to think that we're credible.
Mark Achler: so they'll give us your their money.
Mark Achler: But ability is not really the emotion, the emotion is trust.
Mark Achler: And you're going to hear a couple of themes over and over again, which is trust.
Mark Achler: Everything hinges on trust.
Mark Achler: Trust is the lubrication that make deals happen, and emotion
Mark Achler: is part of how you get there. And once again the goal of a 1st meeting is to get to a second meeting. And if somebody's really interested because you tell a great and compelling story, and people are like, Oh, yeah, I'm like, you're you're pushing my buttons. You're hitting my marks. This is what I'm really interested in.
Mark Achler: And if we like you and we trust you
Mark Achler: and you emotionally engage. Then we're going to dive in.
Mark Achler: So that's that's the 3 passes essence. Keep it short.
Mark Achler: Empathy.
Mark Achler: Really, truly, deeply understand your audience, and how they think and emotion. Tell a great story.
Mark Achler: and with that I'll turn it over to Stephanie.
Chloe Lannert: Thank you. I am. I definitely agree with all of those, and we'll dive into some of those same concepts in my section mark. I also know you have that example, Deck. I don't know if you wanted to walk through that, or we can just skip it.
Mark Achler: I can do that. I can walk through that example. Let me do this.
Mark Achler: Hold on, please. I'm gonna grab that boom. Boom!
Mark Achler: Okay.
Mark Achler: Alright, I got it. So let me do this, and I'm gonna share
Mark Achler: oop. I gotta go to zoom and share.
Mark Achler: Give me one second almost. There.
Mark Achler: now I am there. Okay, can you see that? 10 step framework.
Chloe Lannert: Yes, yes.
Mark Achler: Perfect. Alright, I'm gonna do this really quickly, because
Mark Achler: I want to get to Stephanie. But IA good friend of mine, a guy named Brian Burkhart
Mark Achler: does this for a living. He makes presentations, and if you want this, I'm more than happy to share this slide deck with you. Brian is a master Craftsperson, and he came up with this 10 step framework which I really really like, and as part of this framework
Mark Achler: he came up with a a make-believe company to illustrate the points. So I'm going to give you this framework, and I'm going to tell the story of this make-believe company using this framework.
Mark Achler: So the 1st thing he he says is, what do you stand for?
Mark Achler: And and I wanna like push, pause for a second.
Mark Achler: The clearer you can articulate what you stand for.
Mark Achler: the more powerful your presentation and the more impactful it will be. So we give some examples that we all know. So Jimmy John's is all about speed. It's freakishly fast. That's they stand for speed.
Mark Achler: Las Vegas excess.
Mark Achler: Patagonia is our planet.
Mark Achler: Mckinsey wisdom. We hire the smartest people we possibly can on the planet. Chanel is luxury.
Mark Achler: you know. I'm in Jimmy Buffett. Margaritaville is escapism right? What do you stand for?
Mark Achler: As crisp and simple as you can be. So here's the 10 steps.
Mark Achler: The 1st is tease the problem. And so, to illustrate this.
Mark Achler: he created a company that makes water makes water fresh and clear water. So here's what he says. Imagine
Mark Achler: teasing the problem. Imagine a world where everybody has access to fresh, clean drinking water.
Mark Achler: Imagine that world.
Mark Achler: By the way, if you notice
Mark Achler: very few words heavy on the pictures
Mark Achler: doesn't have to be wordy. This is about storytelling.
Mark Achler: By the way. 1 1 aspect of storytelling. I'm sure you guys have. You guys had Troy Hennikoff's pitch yet, right about how to how to give a a financial plan
Mark Achler: when what.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We have.
Mark Achler: What's that?
Mark Achler: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes, they have. Yep.
Mark Achler: Yeah. So what I always say?
Mark Achler: Yes, and to Troy, which is the poetry of spreadsheets and founders. Look at me like, what are you talking about poetry? Well.
Mark Achler: you can tell a story with pictures or with movies or with words.
Mark Achler: but you could also tell a story with numbers
Mark Achler: and a spreadsheet and a financial plan is just another form of storytelling.
Mark Achler: So remember, we're in. We're in the business of storytelling.
Mark Achler: all right. So what do you stand for. So in this case, he goes, we believe the most fundamental human right is unrestricted access to clean, safe water.
Mark Achler: That's it. That's what we believe.
Mark Achler: So identify yourself. So this is Brian. I'm the founder and CEO of this company.
Mark Achler: And they ask, I want, we're we're seeking 1.5 million dollars. But more importantly.
Mark Achler: we want your connections, your relationships, your domain expertise. We want your partnership to help us grow and scale of this business.
Mark Achler: It's not just money.
Mark Achler: Okay, social proof.
Mark Achler: This is really good.
Mark Achler: So
Mark Achler: Bill Gates has nothing to do with this company but what they said. This is a real quote from Bill Gates. Water insecurity is the single biggest threat humanity faces. So here's social proof, somebody that they respect. I think of this as a brand arbitrage. You're borrowing the brand and the credibility of somebody they respect.
Mark Achler: And you're saying that this problem is real.
Mark Achler: It's large and my all time favorite word is urgent.
Mark Achler: Urgency like this is a hair on fire problem.
Mark Achler: Okay? So how does it work? So this is all make believe. But, he said, look, we have an evaporative cooling system that creates, that ties to a portable condenser, and out comes clean, safe drinking water. That's how it works.
Mark Achler: Once again.
Mark Achler: Really simple, really clear. Not a lot of detail. If they want the detail. Great you have. That's what the appendix is for.
Mark Achler: So what is it?
Mark Achler: Welcome to Rainmaker? This is our company.
Mark Achler: And here are the details, important details. It was founded in 2021. We're based in Chicago. We got 13 employees. We sell to governments and Ngos and universities.
Mark Achler: and one machine costs a million dollars.
Mark Achler: Okay, those are the details.
Mark Achler: Now reinforce the people. The tech Admin need.
Mark Achler: Look, we have. We're the pros from Dover. We have an unmatched team. We have the best team to execute and remember, execution is not just technology execution. It's also business execution
Mark Achler: and customer acquisition.
Mark Achler: Neil knows. Troy probably told you we have a saying which is the greatest product in the world
Mark Achler: without customers is a great product.
Mark Achler: That's not a business. So when you say unmatched team, it's yeah, like, we're the, we're the pros. We can build this tech. But we also have the skills to build the business and to grow customer acquisition.
Mark Achler: We have unmatched technology. There's nothing better on the planet. And look.
Mark Achler: wars are being fought over water. There's an urgent, urgent need.
Mark Achler: Okay?
Mark Achler: And finally, a closing story. And so in this case, he says, you know, I was with my church, and we did a mission to Africa, and we built a well, and that well brought clean drinking water to this village, and it changed
Mark Achler: completely their lives, and that inspired me to do this I had no choice like this is my mission.
Mark Achler: and so that he tells a an emotionally engaging story.
Mark Achler: And so that's it. That's the 10 step framework. It's tease the problem. What do you stand for? Identify yourself? What are you asking for?
Mark Achler: Social proof?
Mark Achler: How it works? What is it the details reinforce, and then a closing story.
Mark Achler: Now there is no right or wrong.
Mark Achler: There is
Mark Achler: lots of different ways to tell a story, and you know, at techstars. They call it mentor whiplash. You talk to 10 mentors, you get 10 different opinions. Ultimately it's up to you to be authentic to yourself, and to tell the story that you're the most comfortable with.
Mark Achler: So this is just one framework
Mark Achler: of how to tell a story and how to do it in a tight timeframe because you don't have a lot of time.
Mark Achler: And then there's other frameworks, and that's where Stephanie's going to take us.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, this is going to be particularly important for folks who have industries that aren't super accessible to the laymen. So like for brio interview prep like people get it. People don't necessarily get the content marketplace and like where it is now compared to like, they'll just think influencers.
Chloe Lannert: You guys will have to do a lot of customer education, and the more you can ground it in customer stories and just really make it as simple as possible, the better chance you have of people being able to understand it, and then also to circle back to Mark's earlier point. They need to be able to communicate it
Chloe Lannert: outside of themselves, like they need to be able to tell their tell your story for you. Whether it's an investor or someone being like, Hey, you're in this particular space. I think you'd be able to help these guys. This is what they're doing like you need to be able to give your pitch to them if you're if you're looking for those secondary connections.
Chloe Lannert: And before I dive in, because Mark's right, there's plenty of ways to do this. So I'm just diving into a framework that's worked really well for me and all the forms of communication I've had over my career. But you ultimately decide how you want to connect with your audience. And I think before we dive in, because we have a lot of content. I want to break this up a little bit and just get some
Chloe Lannert: more information from you. All like, what do you feel like? Has been a struggle or
Chloe Lannert: any kind of choke point in how you've been communicating to either investors, your customers, partners that you're working with like, do you feel like there's something happening that isn't resonating right now, or that you feel like could be improved.
Chloe Lannert: and I can try to hear the conversation reports after you.
Chloe Lannert: I find that this happens a lot with like more technical products. But I think it can happen with any
Chloe Lannert: any product. You're still searching for your Icp or having discovery meetings.
Anthony De Silva: I can go.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, so a an issue that we see when we so we we are in the real estate tech space. We sell our product to realtors and lenders.
Anthony De Silva: and when we sell the product and the person that's paying for the product is essentially the home buyer. Our Channel partners are lenders and realtors, and our strategy right now is to
Anthony De Silva: go through the lender to get to the home buyer because the the value prop is really for the lender for us to being able to shrink the timeline to closing.
Anthony De Silva: And when we explain the process of how we do it.
Anthony De Silva: Sometimes there's like questions of more than credibility, like how how it works
Anthony De Silva: on the back end, and like the integrations that we have with Fannie, Mae
Anthony De Silva: and like lender there. So there are lenders, and they're like lender brokers, right? So it's harder for them to like. Sort of understand that process at times. How everything works in the back end. And there are questions along the lines of
Anthony De Silva: so how do you guys submit it like what what happens? Like, what messages should should
Anthony De Silva: like? Do we see on our end what message messages should be? They they be looking out for. It's it's been a challenge like
Anthony De Silva: making them sort of understand, like the entire process of how that works.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, I'm gonna touch on this point about the what, the why and the how, and it's easy to go straight into the how, because it does assist the conversation. But I think as long as it's a way to support your what and your why, and understand more of their what and their why like? Why do they care so much about the intricacies of implementation right away?
Chloe Lannert: And if you have the ability to reroute the conversation into their. Why, I think you can maintain.
Anthony De Silva: A higher level of control over and keep it service level instead of time.
Anthony De Silva: I think I think they come from a standpoint of like this stamp a point of view like not trusting the product, and probably like not trusting us. Because, you know, it's a new company. It's a new product like, what credibility does your team have to run this
Anthony De Silva: And then like, how how does how does that work? So they get into like the weeds of like how things work and
Anthony De Silva: Then they always go back to. Oh, no, like this. We typically order these things through an appraisal management company, so like we can't go outside of that norm
Anthony De Silva: which they can and we've like successfully done it for a few lenders. But you know this is some pushback that we get.
Chloe Lannert: I think the framework I'll dive into will help with maybe how you start the conversation. But before I do that, does anyone have anything else to share about your experience.
Chloe Lannert: If you story is, think the story is.
Chloe Lannert: the tricky part is to make it
Chloe Lannert: something that is like you per se, or something that feels
Chloe Lannert: correctly differentiated. Rather than it is about it being simple.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, we deliver. We help teams deliver insights from unstructured web data.
Chloe Lannert: It's not a particularly complicated story, but why it matters so much. And what are the issues in the way it's being done with other tools or existing ways. That's
Chloe Lannert: generally where we have a harder time.
Chloe Lannert: Convincing other teams, especially bigger companies that like, Hey.
Chloe Lannert: they really need an Api. They need super scalable.
Chloe Lannert: Information super. Scalable infrastructure. How are you gonna deliver on that? Is usually where
Chloe Lannert: we're we're starting to see a little bit more.
Chloe Lannert: Push that. Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: yeah. Yeah. I think it's about the framing initially and bringing differentiation, I think, comes into actually the latter half of your communication strategy. And I'll dive. I'll show you a visual, because I think it'll help on where you would place the emphasis on differentiation.
Chloe Lannert: Thank you for sharing that. I think that's really helpful context for me.
Chloe Lannert: So I'm gonna dive into a framework just to put everything that Mark said into practice.
Chloe Lannert: How can you actually create tactics on a day to day basis to apply what he's been talking about, which is the essence, the empathy, the emotion, all of this, the 1st which he's already talked about is understanding your audience and your role, and this can differ from interaction to interaction. It's really important for you to do this homework of understanding both your audience and your goal, to refine your communication each and every time.
Chloe Lannert: So for your audience, something that I like to think about is the ABC rule, which is audience before content. So it's gonna differ. If you're talking to a specific type of customer or industry versus an investor or a partner or a collaborator.
Chloe Lannert: Think about who they are, what they represent, what their values are, so that you can start to adjust your messaging towards that. You know, identify what their level of technical understanding actually is. Obviously, it's gonna range depending on who you're speaking to. I usually, as we've said before, try to simplify the language. But at the same time, if you're targeting developers who are in, let's say the AI space, you also want to showcase that you speak the same language in certain ways, too.
Chloe Lannert: Defining your goal and your key message. So asking yourself, what's the purpose of your presentation? What is the goal of that you want out of this interaction.
Chloe Lannert: What do you want your audience to think? What do you want them to feel? And what do you want them to ultimately do, and the action doesn't have to be signing up or investing right away. It's oftentimes let's set up another meeting so that we can actually show you a demo of our product. So you can meet our product team. That in itself is is a great action item out of the meeting, too.
Chloe Lannert: The and the other thing that I like to instill is.
Chloe Lannert: as Mark said, a lot of people try to pack everything into a 30 min meeting, or try to pack everything into a 5 min pitch, short presentation. But really, when I think of content, whether I'm creating content, or I'm just speaking to someone. It's
Chloe Lannert: what is the one big question you want to answer. What is the one thesis you have for that presentation, whether it's saying that you have a vision for data collection on the web, or you have a vision for auto buying and how to streamline the process like, what is that one big question you're trying to answer don't do anything beyond that.
Chloe Lannert: Stop trying to pack in too much. And I think that really helps to make it a message, a lot more crisp.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, so this is how to structure a second story. Mark went through that 5 part series or the slide deck, and ultimately it generally follows the flow that you'll see a lot in movies, in
Chloe Lannert: even podcasts for that matter in audio books and books like, they use this structure oftentimes.
Chloe Lannert: even in Disney movies. But it's something that I absolutely love. I use all the time. It's called the 5 Point argument model. You can see here. It's really how the story collects and forms rises to crescendo.
Chloe Lannert: and that's when you then get your hero the apex moment. And finally, you have the evidence, the resolution, the conclusion, the summary, the feeling of inspiration right at the end of the story. And you might think this doesn't apply to a technology company or a product. But it really does. It applies to everything.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, so ultimately, what? What is the beginning? The introduction is the hook. It's your motivation. It's your vision. It's what you stand for in the beginning.
Chloe Lannert: And then you start to describe why your vision is what it is. You describe the problem, why are you well positioned? You basically, you're putting yourself in their shoes saying, I understand what you've been through. I understand this space. Let me describe why it's so pervasive, why the pain point is so severe, and you want to fill that the emotion and bring them into this moment with you.
Chloe Lannert: and then at the end, ultimately, once you've been able to collect all the emotional integrity there, you then introduce the solution, your
Chloe Lannert: actual product, what you're trying to do about that problem space. And from there, of course, you need to provide evidence. Why are you well positioned? Maybe that's when you describe your team. You describe the product. You describe what you're building your expertise? Why, you've been in the domain space all along. You might have some data points from recent pilots you've run.
Chloe Lannert: and then at the end you then draw the conclusion, the summary the so what? Why are we here? And what would I all like to inspire you to do today.
Chloe Lannert: So if I were to just break it down, what you're really doing is you're building trust with your key audience. In the beginning
Chloe Lannert: you're saying. I know what you've been through. I've been in your shoes before, or I've been in their shoes before.
Chloe Lannert: You don't even you don't even talk about your product. Yet at this point you're just trying to connect with audience, build that trust the report with them. And then once you hit that climax point where the solution is. That's when you introduce yourself. That's when you say I am here. I have built the product. I have my team here I have your back.
Chloe Lannert: This is why, with the evidence and conclusion that's when you start to inspire them with the action that you would like to do together or for them to take.
Chloe Lannert: So I'm gonna dive into each of these just to give you some key tactics that I've used.
Chloe Lannert: So the introduction is maybe the most important part. Besides the ending, I would say the hook is very crucial, so the introduction is just the part where you grab their attention. It's where you have this one opportunity to draw a lasting impression.
Chloe Lannert: People make a lot of snap judgments in the 1st few seconds. You know that from watching Youtube videos like people's attention. Spans can be small. And you have a very quick moment to get them to click, to care. So there's a few things you can do in the beginning, which is to open with a surprising fact, a statistic, something to really paint the picture of the problem, space you're solving it, you can start with a brief, impactful story.
Chloe Lannert: What I like to do is actually ultimately try to connect it with your personal story like anything that you can do to bring yourself connected to what you're solving in. And even with the person you're speaking to, or something that's very bold. A bold statement. Maybe it's again like a differentiating view that you have world. That draws their attention.
Chloe Lannert: And then something else you can do is set the stage by kind of giving an idea of what you're gonna talk about today. So you could either do a quick roadmap. You can state the purpose of why you're there today. You can kind of just use it as an opportunity to set a map of what you're gonna dive into. And this is optional, I would say it works well for presentations, maybe longer form conversations. If you have 3 min, for example, you might not have time to dive into a whole roadmap.
Chloe Lannert: Yes, when is when do you find that this is the most important?
Chloe Lannert: Are there types of?
Chloe Lannert: Are the types of people? Sorry if you have like types of people that react better to this? Are there types of products or spaces that require this more? So? I'm curious kind of like.
Chloe Lannert: When when does it make sense to do this? Because we've kind of got mixed feedback? Sometimes people find out find it like kind of like.
Chloe Lannert: like kind of haughty, you know, like you're like telling me about all your credentials like, I don't really care. And then other places. You actually need that sometimes, because
Chloe Lannert: it's
Chloe Lannert: like they're like, I don't want to listen to just like anything exactly. I think you just made that exact point like it's worked well when I'm presenting to key executive audiences where they really like having an executive summary like, why am I here like, I just want to know why I'm sitting for the next 30 min.
Chloe Lannert: But like, I said, if it's more of an open, ended conversation where you really there are there to tell a story. You know they're kind of already there to listen to you. Then I would say, you can skip it. So it kind of depends on what you believe they care about. And that's why I think the audience research that you do in the beginning is important like, who are you actually speaking to? What are they stand for? Do you feel like they need to understand your credibility upfront? Or do they just want you to get into the details right away and tell them what you want.
Chloe Lannert: So I would say you kind of have to dig into it a bit yourself. But, Mark, do you have any opinions on that? Or do you feel like
Chloe Lannert: drop? Bringing up your credibility in the beginning is important. I would say it only matters for
Chloe Lannert: key execs in certain circumstances. For me.
Mark Achler: You know, Sefi, like there is no right or wrong here. I I think it helped. I always think about it as incremental steps of credibility at some point
Mark Achler: like, who are you, and why should we listen to you like? What? What is it about you that we should believe and trust. And so, however, you, whenever you can weave that in, I think it's important.
Chloe Lannert: And if if you're worried about coming off like condescending, I feel like you could play with the tone and like, who's the audience you're you're thinking about who doesn't respond? Well.
Chloe Lannert: There was just a couple of instances that some of that feedback as a unit, and it was like
Chloe Lannert: Lawrence.
Chloe Lannert: These were 2 people, 2 2 teams in finance. Go ahead, and then one that's not in finance.
Chloe Lannert: I I feel like you could play around with tone and make and do the credentials thing. But like, Hey, we're big AI nerds like we're like, I. I feel like you could play with it and
Chloe Lannert: use different ways to communicate like, Hey, we actually know what you're talking about without missing Logos.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. And I think what Mark is saying is right is you can scatter it throughout the presentation. Not have a dedicated section for it in the beginning, but rather you just sprinkle it through, especially after you introduce what you're building. I think that's the takeaway that we've had so far is like, just you don't need to open with it.
Chloe Lannert: being open with it. If it comes up right.
Chloe Lannert: If you feel that it's needed later on.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, no problem. I'll I'll get to a point of where I think it would fit in. Well, okay, so I just want to dive into a quick example of like a bad hook versus a good hook. So let's just say there's a founder who's building a blockchain, of course, blockchain supply chain management solution called blockchain logistics.
Chloe Lannert: So they walk in
Chloe Lannert: and open, saying, Good morning, everyone. We are blockchain logistics. And we're revolutionizing the supply chain industry with our cutting edge. Distributed ledger technology, our platform leverages the power of hash functions and cryptography to ensure immutability and transparency.
Chloe Lannert: What did what did you think?
Chloe Lannert: Just watching at that time?
Chloe Lannert: It just goes straight into it, right? And it's filled with jargon and buzzwords, and I don't think anyone really cares. Okay, so let me let me do a revised version.
Chloe Lannert: Okay.
Chloe Lannert: think about the last time you ordered something online and had no idea where it was for days. Or maybe you are a food supplier, and you don't know if your produce arrived fresh, or if it was spoiled, and the truth is, today's supply chains are opaque. They are inefficient. They're vulnerable to fraud.
Chloe Lannert: and this is costing businesses billions every year in a road Consumer Trust. So at blockchain logistics, we're solving this problem. We provide a transparent and secure way to track goods from origin to destination. And this gives you accountability and building trust for everybody that's involved.
Chloe Lannert: so gives you a example in the beginning, using plain, plain language and not jargon instead of in the beginning it was very unclear.
Chloe Lannert: What I mean if you're building, but for what? For? Who
Chloe Lannert: and the new example? It defines the problem. It gives a concrete example, and it connects it with emotion, which is frustration, lack of trust, fraud concerns.
Chloe Lannert: Okay.
Mark Achler: Hey, Stephanie, can I add in something.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, this suit?
Mark Achler: So
Mark Achler: it's really the trap that many entrepreneurs fall into is we all talk about what we do and how we do it.
Mark Achler: But
Mark Achler: what's more powerful is not how we do it, but what Stephanie just said, which is the impact it has on our customers.
Mark Achler: And if you talk about the impact of your product. Your service technology
Mark Achler: is way more credible. One great way of doing that is to actually describe it from your customer's point of view. So instead of saying, our product does Xyz say our customers
Mark Achler: the impact it has on our it's life altering on our customers because it's reimagined. How they, you know, do X.
Mark Achler: So it's not what you do or how you do it. It's about the impact it has from the point of view of your customer. And, by the way, I want to differentiate. And somebody already said this, and oftentimes there might be an end user. And the customer and those are 2 different stakeholders. Oftentimes there are multiple stakeholders around the equation. If you're talking to, if you're giving a presentation to a Vc and trying to raise money.
Mark Achler: Ultimately, it's the customer who's ever paying you and the impact it has on the customer that really matters.
Mark Achler: Sorry, Stephanie. I didn't mean to interrupt.
Chloe Lannert: Well said, it's true impact, the why is much more important. So let's try an exercise and put it in practice. Okay, so I would love for you all. But maybe you've already done this work. But
Chloe Lannert: get into a group, maybe 2 or 3 people think about a hook for your own company. That either is something you already use. And it's working today, or apply some of the concepts that we just learned about a bold statement, a surprising fact, a personal connection or story, to open up how you would introduce to either. And think about the audience, too. You can use customer as an example or investment use case or partner? So why don't we give it
Chloe Lannert: 3 min to see 3 or 5 min to see how far we get? I would love to just share some examples from across room and give some feedback.
Chloe Lannert: Okay?
Chloe Lannert: So
Chloe Lannert: it's like putting a lot of effort.
Chloe Lannert: But thinking about it, I can write about this last example.
Chloe Lannert: Take one.
Chloe Lannert: There we go.
Chloe Lannert: It's
Chloe Lannert: yeah stress how stressful it was like.
Chloe Lannert: that's like very big trigger for most of the
Chloe Lannert: Jesus. Right? They say, I don't ever want to
Chloe Lannert: experience that meeting again. Right? It sounds like the even worthless, actually.
Chloe Lannert: Okay.
Chloe Lannert: yeah, exactly.
Chloe Lannert: And unfortunately.
Chloe Lannert: use the connectors. Okay, scenarios.
Chloe Lannert: Think it's not.
Chloe Lannert: That's cool
Chloe Lannert: makes sense as well, and in terms of illustrating what you what you say, connection to content
Chloe Lannert: actually connected
Chloe Lannert: Think we use different images like you have in mind, or you have it in mind.
Chloe Lannert: even if you're not passionate about sports, but for those that are passionate about sports. You see that you know
Chloe Lannert: like, how do you?
Chloe Lannert: Your question is 5, 9, especially if you have anything that like.
Chloe Lannert: assume you would use your own contact. Right?
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, working currently for a grant giving way to
Chloe Lannert: brown or even just as an industry in general saying, should I ridiculously inspiring travel because everyone wants to travel.
Chloe Lannert: But that's going to take action
Chloe Lannert: travel inspired by challenge for this
Chloe Lannert: and the fact that I need to show a piece of content.
Chloe Lannert: Think is probably the best.
Chloe Lannert: It's more.
Chloe Lannert: It's ongoing for a few years.
Chloe Lannert: I think. There might be. There may be something, and so it's like
Chloe Lannert: you've you've built all this like to companies. Right? You've built all this great product. You understand customers so well. All these things are right. You have no way of
Chloe Lannert: capturing their emotions. Or some, I don't know, if that's like you know
Chloe Lannert: not, have you been like fully focused on agencies, no
Chloe Lannert: agency is a starting point, but pretty much anything to see business.
Chloe Lannert: What I mean. It's like the the the paint, maybe like
Chloe Lannert: that's 1 version of explaining the pain for me, business perspective.
Chloe Lannert: right? Versus like the pain of not being able to connect.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, if you've shown, if you kind of illustrate the pain, okay one.
Chloe Lannert: You can illustrate the thing from the business's perspective, which is, you've done all this stuff, but you still don't have a good brand, so you can't connect with your audience the same way.
Chloe Lannert: Right?
Chloe Lannert: So I thought, the whole point of this is that.
Chloe Lannert: But what I was saying is.
Chloe Lannert: I think, that that builds to the hook of why Xy is needed.
Chloe Lannert: It is, that's for sure. Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: Same
Chloe Lannert: makes sense from the consumer perspective.
Chloe Lannert: I don't want to look at it.
Chloe Lannert: But that thing I don't know if that famously connects to the
Chloe Lannert: company who's gonna produce the content?
Chloe Lannert: That's what they all want to do.
Chloe Lannert: You want to call. Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: yeah, you can do it in that like consumer perspective. And say, don't be one of them.
Chloe Lannert: If you want content. That doesn't just yeah, think so.
Chloe Lannert: Quite a match.
Chloe Lannert: Why do that? It's like that for like 30 seconds.
Chloe Lannert: it's gonna be something along the lines of it's relatable to everyone in the room that everyone has either had to manually copy and paste a bunch of info in a spreadsheet or database, or you try to write a web scrapper for it. And it sucks to do. And it broke.
Chloe Lannert: That's basically
Chloe Lannert: we need to get this content into your deliverable into your software. You can see it in front of you, and you have no way of just getting it there.
Chloe Lannert: I mean, that would be great.
Chloe Lannert: all right. Who wants to volunteer 1st to try it out. It doesn't have to be in a perfect state. It could also be
Chloe Lannert: plans.
Chloe Lannert: Think what we how do people like picture the 1st thing that you've ever taken
Chloe Lannert: your hand towards when you didn't even know what questions were gonna be asked of you. And honestly, your problems.
Chloe Lannert: a lot of the video users don't ever want to choose inside even again. And that's why
Chloe Lannert: we are here to give you the answers and the confidence to mail your 1st interviews and all the other ones after that, and get your video.
Chloe Lannert: Okay?
Chloe Lannert: Oh, nice.
Chloe Lannert: Wanna jump in.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Oh, okay. So you wanna hear my hook actually.
Chloe Lannert: Yes.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Oh, yeah. So what we discussed. Actually, the room was like, so for me was like, the hook is like mentioning some of the consequences of so basically, my like, the company's area would be about like solving the the failures in manufacturing.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: And so by itself, the the idea is so much boring for many audience, I would say most of them, but we try to elaborate and leverage on the consequences of the failures that they would probably see in in terms of manufacturing. So one example would be like the number of airplane crashes that we have seen recently.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: And so that's why it's kind of like the hoop that we want to stick around, and showing that if it if we have some defective parts, it may end up to having some, some
Esmaeil Sadeghi: like airplanes, like falling down like rashes, and so on.
Chloe Lannert: If you want to jump in.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Sure. Hi, Stephanie, nice to see you again.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: So for me, my, my intro it's
Vivian @makingautoeasy: it's always been, and I still get a hard time finding another one that I like better than this. But it's car buying sucks.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: I always talk about how car buying sucks, and I frame it from the perspective of everybody as a car buyer, because most people are car buyers, not car sellers and so I talk about how it's really overwhelming. There's a ton of options you want to avoid the dealership. And then I switch into the perspective of the b 2 b side. But it's actually really overwhelming for salespeople as well because of these specific reasons. So that's been my, my intro.
Chloe Lannert: That's great. Just to quickly jump in. I think so. All of these are great examples with the emotional framing of you know, not being able to pass an interview and actually have your hands sweating. I think that's a great painting of the picture. And then the statistics with the airplane crashes is obviously real, and it's a dangerous situation. Car buying sucks. I think a lot of people can agree with that. The only thing I would call out is that if it were a specific person that works at a company that you are selling to as a b 2 b
Chloe Lannert: enterprise, or perhaps you're selling to a specific type of consumer. You might have to tweak that pain point slightly. Just based on the audience like what you just mentioned for salespeople. It can be a very complex and difficult process for XY. And Z. Reasons. So even though you might start with car buying sucks. But then you have to gear it towards that audience person. So just keeping that in mind based on
Chloe Lannert: hey? Anyone else want to share.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, I could go as well. So I mean.
Anthony De Silva: as I was in the group, I was thinking about this, so my pitch was going to be, hey? Like this? When home buying is really inefficient. There's a ton of delays, and when we get a home inspection and an appraisal.
Anthony De Silva: But I was, as I was saying, that, you know, I thought maybe, what if I could provide more factual data like, for example, it takes 30 days to close a on a home. I'll spend about a person spends about $500 per appraisal which translates to like
Anthony De Silva: 2 3 billion dollars in the industry.
Anthony De Silva: I guess a question I have is.
Anthony De Silva: is it impactful to have those industry statistics? Or should it be more personal
Anthony De Silva: like if if I save $500. It's like, it's not that impactful for for a person, you know, at a personal level. But you know, if I'm able to save like 2 billion dollars in the industry. That's it's more of a like.
Anthony De Silva: a bigger, bigger impact. So just just curious, you know how what y'all think about that.
Chloe Lannert: But I I can jump in here. I think it matters as a big picture problem that can resonate with the audience. But ultimately you still have to frame it from the perspective of the person that you're speaking to. So if they are responsible for the company's bottom line, and that also pertains to the industry
Chloe Lannert: statistics that you're mentioning, because that's a trend that the industry is going towards. Then it relates. But you still have to tie it back to that specific person's responsibilities on a day to day basis. I would say
Chloe Lannert: so, making it a bit more personal to that that owner, and what they do.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah.
Mark Achler: Stephanie.
Mark Achler: I've got a a good story that illustrates that point. It's about 2 min long. I don't know how much time we have if I don't want to interrupt your flow.
Mark Achler: But maybe afterwards I could tell that story.
Chloe Lannert: Feel free to jump in. I can speed through certain next section, so feel free.
Mark Achler: Okay.
Mark Achler: Alright. So this, the question that that was asked and I wish I could be in the room with you guys
Mark Achler: is a really important question, and
Mark Achler: I have a great answer for that question.
Mark Achler: So so I don't know if you guys remember, redbox redbox was a kiosk that rent people rent movies from. And eventually we got to be 1 3rd of all us households. So we rented about 90 million movies a month.
Mark Achler: and part of the reason we were so successful back in the day was we got Walmart to partner with us. If you ever went to a Walmart you saw there's a red box, or there used to be a red box in front of every Walmart.
Mark Achler: In 2,007 we went. We finally got a meeting with the buyer. There was a senior vice President who is responsible for Dvds. Back in the day.
Mark Achler: People used to buy Dvds, if you remember, and
Mark Achler: Walmart sold about 5 billion dollars worth of Dvds.
Mark Achler: And not only did they sell 5 billion dollars worth of Dvds, but
Mark Achler: a Temple movie, a blockbuster movie drove traffic into the store, so we got a chance to meet with the buyer.
Mark Achler: and the guy looked at us and said.
Mark Achler: No, how, no way over my dead body.
Mark Achler: Would I ever put a kiosk in front of the store that would
Mark Achler: people would rent a movie for a dollar instead of buy a DVD. Why would I jeopardize the sale? And, by the way, we're merchants, we don't rent anything. We sell stuff. That's our DNA. That's who we are, and the Guy. The buyer just looked at us and said, Not a chance in hell.
Mark Achler: And it took us 2 years, and we really really studied Walmart.
Mark Achler: and we figured it out, and we had a presentation to the CEO Walmart. And obviously this the CEO Walmart said, yes.
Mark Achler: So what? How did we figure out how to override how to get the CEO of a publicly traded company to override
Mark Achler: a key executive and jeopardize
Mark Achler: potentially cannibalize a 5 billion dollars line of business, and even for Walmart, 5 billion dollars is still 5 billion dollars.
Mark Achler: And the answer is.
Mark Achler: we understood what they cared about and what they measured, what their Kpis are. So they cared about frequency.
Mark Achler: So when you rent a movie, you have to return it. That's 2 trips to the store
Mark Achler: we think about. If you can get every Walmart customer to come twice
Mark Achler: instead a week instead of once a week or once a month. What does that impact Walmart
Mark Achler: basket size turns out before Covid watching a movie was a social experience, and we were able to prove that when people went to the store they bought $10 more per visit basket size when they rented a movie.
Mark Achler: Well, now, think about all Walmart's business and increasing the basket size by $10,
Mark Achler: and they cared about revenue per square foot, and we were a cash machine because we gave them a Rev. Share, and we generated it was free money to Walmart, and we generated more revenue per square foot than anything in the store.
Mark Achler: They could care less about renting movies. They really cared about frequency.
Mark Achler: basket size, and revenue per square foot.
Mark Achler: And so the reason I'm telling that story is.
Mark Achler: it's not about you. It's about
Mark Achler: your partner, and if your partner, what does your partner care the most about.
Mark Achler: Follow the money, and that's how we were able to get Walmart to partner with us.
Chloe Lannert: Thank you.
Chloe Lannert: Does that help, Anthony? I feel like it's a great example of like. If the statistic is relevant to what they are measured by or care about, then absolutely.
Mark Achler: They didn't care about. They could care less about renting movies, right? Could care less.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, no, that there's definitely an angle that I could do more research into like
Anthony De Silva: these mid level lenders. And like the those metrics that they track. And you know, trying to
Anthony De Silva: come up with a story around that. And like how we're impacting those metrics.
Mark Achler: Exactly.
Mark Achler: Now that's exactly correct. Follow the money. What do they care about? How do they get a bonus at the end of the year.
Mark Achler: What are their Kpis? How do they get promoted?
Mark Achler: It's not about you. It's about them.
Anthony De Silva: Thank you.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, I think we have to move on. We're still on Section 2, okay, problem description. So this is once you've painted this picture of the pain point. Now, you're really diving into the problem that you're trying to solve. So you want to clearly articulate the pain point in the landscape really so that the audience knows why you're why you're in the space and
Chloe Lannert: why it's worth solving ultimately. So this is where you can use real world examples. This is where you can throw in some data and statistics about the airplane crashes about the impact on manufacturing supply chains about anything that you're building within. But you still want to overall. Avoid too much of the buzzwords and technical jargon. Ultimately you want to explain it in simple terms and connect with what they care about.
Chloe Lannert: So, again, connecting with audience pain points, means understand their needs, challenges, frustrations, making it more relatable and urgent. Urgent is another thing is like. Why should they care now? Red Box is a great example. It might have taken a few years, but perhaps, if they miss on this opportunity, they are missing out on the revenue per square foot, and they're going to be beat out by other competitors. There's there's different ways to frame it. As to why, it's urgent today.
Chloe Lannert: And then oftentimes it is about saving time. It could be about reducing costs or increasing efficiency. So it's really not about the product features. Yet it's just about what they get measured by.
Chloe Lannert: So this is a great way to frame your problems or your product, which is the emotional side of things. So ultimately, when you're thinking about your presentation, or even just sections of the story that you're telling. What kind of emotion are you trying to insight. What kind of emotions do you want to draw out of the message that you're trying to share? So there's different things like you can
Chloe Lannert: create a frustration right? That pisses me off.
Chloe Lannert: Why are we still dealing with this today? Or it could be, wow! That's amazing. It's incredible that we have this vision that you're setting forth, or maybe this feeling of validation for the audience. Finally someone said, what I'm feeling, someone gets me. I feel recognized or maybe. Oh, now I get it. It's a technical concept in AI that I didn't know, and it makes sense that it can produce the need for me to hire another full staff of customer support.
Chloe Lannert: So just a couple of examples here. So for Wcs feeling you can elicit this reaction for describing the problem. Space, like your most talented engineers, are wasting 20% of their work just on setting up cloud infrastructure every week that could be time used for them to actually develop innovative solutions or build applications instead.
Chloe Lannert: So frustration, anger for validation and relief.
Chloe Lannert: you know that dread of a security breach because you're still using legacy systems that feel like a ticking time bomb.
Chloe Lannert: We felt it, too.
Chloe Lannert: Maybe that's when you say I I was in this space for over 15 years. This happened to me on a weekly basis.
Chloe Lannert: So validation and relief with your audience, is there?
Chloe Lannert: Okay? Now that you've set up this space, you have now got them in your side of the basketball court.
Chloe Lannert: You're you're in it together. This is when you describe yourself. This is when you paint the picture of like, we are here building this solution, to address that exact pain point that we have felt too.
Chloe Lannert: So this is when you start to explain your product or your technology in an accessible way. So again, still avoiding jargon, still explaining things simply, only keeping exactly what's necessary, shaving off the fat in any places that you can in terms of keeping the message crisp and clear. And it's another opportunity for you to also use analogies, metaphors, comparisons. You know, describing things in everyday words. So for cloud computing, for example.
Chloe Lannert: think of it like renting, computing power instead of owning a server. It's like renting an apartment instead of buying a whole building.
Chloe Lannert: I mean, at this point, most people know what computing cloud computing is. But let's say it's another concept that maybe you need to explain in an accessible way
Chloe Lannert: for blockchain. Imagine a digital ledger that everyone in the room shares. Every transaction is recorded simultaneously, so nobody can cheat or change the past.
Chloe Lannert: So another concept, okay, I'm trying to check out how much time we have.
Chloe Lannert: Do we want to do another exercise? I think he mentioned a good one.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, let's do it. Okay, so let's do this one quickly as well. So I would love for you all to get groups real quick. Once again. Think of the product that you're building and describe it in simple, plain language. If you have an opportunity to use a metaphor or an analogy that you've already been testing out. I'd love to hear it. So yeah, just no jargon all straight to the point and make it fun?
Chloe Lannert: Okay, we'll come back in another 5 min.
Chloe Lannert: Words like web scraping pointless things.
Chloe Lannert: I think those are the main 2 that are in jail theft
Chloe Lannert: don't have a buzzer, so I'll just do it.
Chloe Lannert: And now teams use their person to go collect information online.
Chloe Lannert: put it into your system. We're replacing that
Chloe Lannert: on redeeming work with artificial intelligence.
Chloe Lannert: where? So are you guys gonna pitch the consumer version or the b 2 b version at Demo day?
Chloe Lannert: Investment customers.
Chloe Lannert: What are you looking for? Investment customers? What's like the goal business intelligence problems so like probably sales intelligence specifically
Chloe Lannert: so to to find.
Chloe Lannert: Oh, what's the objective of that. Yeah. Early early investors honestly pretty itself. And
Chloe Lannert: I think 3rd is actually customers moving investment recruiting.
Chloe Lannert: He lost his.
Chloe Lannert: Our customers are just not gonna show up there. They're not gonna be there recruiting, depending on who we get to call
Chloe Lannert: and the order with customers. The customers won't be in a room. But people, you know.
Chloe Lannert: if you really either way is targeted to invest it, whether that's from investment itself
Chloe Lannert: or whether it's a speaker from other companies switch your cool.
Chloe Lannert: I'm sick, like I'm saying, if we might change it. But for now it's like getting people to
Chloe Lannert: us who looks like.
Chloe Lannert: and and I think there will be a lot of people with unemployed friends in the audience.
Chloe Lannert: Yes, people with unemployed friends in the audience have a lot of unemployed friends.
Chloe Lannert: Yep, yep.
Chloe Lannert: You guys have anything else in the garden jail kind of thing. You guys want to try explaining it
Chloe Lannert: real as simple as possible.
Chloe Lannert: Imagine that you have a friend.
Chloe Lannert: That is no. Imagine you have a professional experts in your domain and is available 24, 7.
Chloe Lannert: I'm excited.
Chloe Lannert: Booth, and the way we have it right now is, it's it's a.
Chloe Lannert: it's a supportive. So it's very-. It's very kind of
Chloe Lannert: yeah, yeah, a professional.
Chloe Lannert: So you said, a professional coach in your pocket. 24, 7
Chloe Lannert: mentioned. They are increasingly so. He was such a good yeah.
Chloe Lannert: yeah, I guess maybe we should. We should bring it.
Chloe Lannert: Professional experts industry, the street exit.
Chloe Lannert: Just so you get a chance.
Chloe Lannert: Connect brands to the photographers.
Chloe Lannert: Who wants to jump in and share their really fresh and free little descriptor.
Chloe Lannert: Any? Yeah. And it's like, we don't know exactly what is considered jargon right? AI could be used. It depends on your audience whether they care about that specifically. But you know you want to keep it a good balance. So
Chloe Lannert: who wants to share 1st
Chloe Lannert: cool?
Chloe Lannert: Carlo?
Chloe Lannert: We connect brands to better photographers and video makers to make all that content great for this.
Chris Wong: Yeah. So legalese, where we help lawyers. By giving them an AI system that helps them track legal time and describes what they did into an invoice, a client invoice.
Chloe Lannert: But I do. Sorry. I'm just providing commentary. I think it can be simplified just a little bit more about ultimately what it's achieving, just simplifying legal.
Chloe Lannert: You're you're gonna have to word. Submit this for me. But like in one sentence, what does it do? Simplifying legal
Chloe Lannert: or taking guesswork out of legal something something like that. It doesn't have to be a a slogan per se, but
Chloe Lannert: I think you could shred slightly.
Chris Wong: Okay, let me do some wordsmithing. I'll send in chat.
Mark Achler: So a a good test of a product is, if a product market fit is what if you took it away?
Mark Achler: If you once. It's really hard to change workflow and process, especially in a law firm. But it if you were to
Mark Achler: get somebody to start using it, and then you took it away, how would they feel?
Mark Achler: I'd be really curious like like, if you
Mark Achler: you streamline you, you free up their time to do the task that they really care most about.
Mark Achler: and you free them up from the mundane.
Chris Wong: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I hear you on that. I think it's the emotion, the emotions around. You know.
Chris Wong: doing administrative timekeeping or like, admin like kind of work that is like mundane, monotonous.
Chris Wong: It's like you're relieving them of that.
Mark Achler: Yeah.
Mark Achler: right? Well, they could spend their time, you know. They make money by billing hours. They don't make time by documenting like
Mark Achler: the time they spend in operations is time. That's those are non-billable hours.
Chris Wong: That's right. Yeah.
Mark Achler: So you're freeing them up.
Chris Wong: Yeah, from non billable time to things that they could be doing, which is bill time, or actually practice the law which they intended to do when they became a lawyer.
Chloe Lannert: And I think the buy part, which is the how of your product. That's the part I was mentioning could be more streamlined or just
Chloe Lannert: you don't have to dive into exactly what you are
Chloe Lannert: handling in every task. But you are automating and then kind of summarize.
Chloe Lannert: You're automating tedious tasks so essentially.
Chris Wong: No.
Chloe Lannert: I'll try. I'm just making stuff right now.
Chloe Lannert: Empower anyone on your team to deliver insights from unstructured web data.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, I think that's a good. That's like the good high impact short version.
Chloe Lannert: But it still leaves people maybe wanting like, Okay, what is that? Specifically not sure if you can.
Chloe Lannert: But because I'm not technical, expert technical people will see what you mean, probably. And I mean, I see what you mean with that
Chloe Lannert: using unstructured.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, what do people use that for?
Chloe Lannert: What do they use it? Yeah, what? Why do people want unstructured? I'm just trying to get insights from? Okay. So I think, deliver insights from web data instead of unstructured and pasting
Chloe Lannert: and some other information. I don't know.
Chloe Lannert: Delivering insights like we actually go solve the pain points, hours of managing things that we need to.
Chloe Lannert: which is like hours of manually writing down the lines into like an automated one.
Chloe Lannert: So many words. And you confuse people. So that.
Chloe Lannert: okay, awesome. Do we have anyone else.
Chloe Lannert: You too.
Chloe Lannert: Think Vivian.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Okay, I have
Vivian @makingautoeasy: our product, fixes your broken sales process to speed up the sales cycle and help. No, sorry. Our our product fixes your broken sales process to help salespeople sell more cars, faster with less effort.
Chloe Lannert: Yup
Chloe Lannert: knowledge upfront.
Chloe Lannert: And then I think, after that, in the conversation you have would be by doing XY. And Z. You could dive into details from there.
Chloe Lannert: Meg.
Meg Hall: Can you guys hear me?
Chloe Lannert: Yes.
Meg Hall: Okay, cool. So sales play helps enterprise sales reps to create a plan to win big deals. These strategic account plans map out how to deliver the right message to the right person at the right time.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, it was clear to me.
Meg Hall: Cool.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, awesome. I'm gonna keep moving. So we have limited time here.
Chloe Lannert: But that was all great. We kind of. We touched on this a little bit. But
Chloe Lannert: what we're really doing is talking about the what and the why. Those are the 2 most important questions you should answer in your description of your company, your products, your solution, the how you can touch on, but only if it's in support of the why, what? And you only want to ask yourself, do I really need to include this technical detail? Do I really need to include all the features without really talking about the benefits
Chloe Lannert: so really limit the how until it's really necessary in the conversation, or leave it for the appendix as earlier.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, here's a couple of examples.
Chloe Lannert: So let's say, the product is a data compression algorithm. The what is our technology shrinks the size of data files
Chloe Lannert: the why this allows us to store more information in less space saving companies, money on storage costs and making data transfer much faster.
Chloe Lannert: The how you want to avoid like the specifics of the algorithm. And unless you get asked about it, unless it's a room full of data engineers, for example, experts. The other thing I want to emphasize is just overall clarity. You want to emphasize
Chloe Lannert: structure, brevity, conciseness, clarity. Don't dive into all full breadth of terms that you want to pack in there. Just choose your words carefully, and the best way to practice this is actually practice.
Chloe Lannert: Don't go into the 1st conversation, and without having gone through your message, your deck, your presentation.
Chloe Lannert: a lot of people ask how you come up with a good presentation or
Chloe Lannert: public speaking. It is, I tell you, from experience, it is all about practice.
Chloe Lannert: especially when you anticipate the questions you're gonna get from people you anticipate their needs, their pain points what they are going to dig into. The best way to prepare is like, actually practice multiple times. So
Chloe Lannert: it helps a lot. I think it's under underrated.
Chloe Lannert: Okay.
Chloe Lannert: I just went into this, I'm gonna speed through something else you can always do if you have a deck is, of course, include visuals and demos. Again, I've seen pitch decks that have really great visuals. And I've also seen ones that are very confusing, and they include graphs that I have to think about. And then I stop listening to them because I'm trying to figure out what the graph says. Of course it's not clear or just doesn't compare the data in a very clear manner. So make sure that your visuals are
Chloe Lannert: serving a specific purpose, and that they are clear, and they are also accurate and credible. And I was just pulling them.
Chloe Lannert: trying to support your argument of thesis. It's actually a true statement. And then with Demos, Demos can be very powerful. So let's say you're in the stage of conversation where you actually walk through a live demo of your product.
Chloe Lannert: Very, very good way for you to actually show and not just talk.
Chloe Lannert: So that's fantastic. Just make sure that you are actually showing. So one structure you can use is you talk, you introduce, then you dive into the product, and you, Demo. Keep it simple. Keep it straightforward. Make the point you're trying to make, and then you summarize and wrap up with what you just showed, and the value that you just showed and how it will impact them. So again, just keep it just practice and anticipate things going wrong when it comes to just have a backup or a screenshot in your back pocket.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, so results. So this is, you've already talked about. Present the solution. Now, you can quantify the impact. So if you had run a pilot with customers, or you have other data that you can use to support your your thesis effectively, this is the point where you can describe it. You can talk about examples that you've gone through with your customer base, maybe a focus group that you've run surveys or other external data points that you can provide. It can help people trust the
Chloe Lannert: pitch that you're you're creating here.
Chloe Lannert: on. Okay, summarize, the results is the very end. So this is like where you get to tie everything up into a neat bow. It's really important to land the ending, because if you don't. Then you basically you know everything you just talked about can be out the door and in the trash if you don't tie it up well, here. So this is your opportunity to say so. What it is where you tie in the problem statement, you said in the beginning, the solution and the impact and drive home why people should care.
Chloe Lannert: the ending, as in addition to that, is also the conclusion. So the conclusion is where you wanna essentially tie together what action?
Chloe Lannert: So be direct. Be clear. Don't beat around the bush. If you're asking for a second meeting, make sure that that is clear in the end. Don't just say, Hey, I'm excited for a second meeting, but obviously you say, Hey, I'd love for you to learn more if you want to meet with my product team. Let's do that. We'll dive into a demo together and set up some more time with them.
Chloe Lannert: Don't say let's talk soon. That's super unclear is not. People don't really know what to do with that information. This is also a point where you don't want to introduce more information, so don't start to talk about more proof points of your team members at this point. This is the point where you wrap it up and you have a clear. Ask.
Chloe Lannert: So here's an example. Okay.
Chloe Lannert: okay, focus on a follow up meeting. So we believe our traction speaks for itself. We are incredibly excited about the market opportunity ahead. And we're looking to close our series a by August this year. So we'd love to schedule a deeper dive into our financial model and results in the coming days.
Chloe Lannert: so make it direct. Make it time out, if possible. Let's say you want to schedule a demo or work with a customer. So another example here.
Chloe Lannert: the best way to understand the impact of our product is to experience it. So we'd love to introduce you to schedule a personalized demo with our product team next week. Or, better yet, join us for a brief informal meeting with a couple of our members here to see the passion behind what we're building.
Chloe Lannert: Also just make it very low friction. So if you are going to introduce or invite someone to schedule a follow up or a demo, make sure that it's super easy for them to find time with you, or if you want them to try it out on your website. It's like QR code. Short, link, bitly link, like super easy.
Chloe Lannert: Make the very, very low.
Chloe Lannert: Okay. Couple of things to craft a memorable takeaway from there.
Chloe Lannert: Strong language, emotional takeaway, if possible.
Chloe Lannert: So vary the tone that you use at the end. Mark is really good. At this he varies his tone a lot. I don't know if you noticed, but he speaks slowly, clearly, and pauses. So that takes
Chloe Lannert: years of practice. I would say, Mark, or maybe you're just naturally really good at.
Mark Achler: Year. It took years of practice.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah.
Mark Achler: And I was originally a high school history teacher, and if you can stand in front of a room full of high school juniors who absolutely don't want to be there teaching them a subject and make it interesting. Then you feel like, that's that's how I learned the craft.
Chloe Lannert: It's true.
Chloe Lannert: So one thing I like to do in the ending is evoking emotion by connecting it back to what you talked about in the beginning. I I personally love. When people do this, when they say something like.
Chloe Lannert: you know that statistic I shared in the beginning. We are trying to actively solve that today, with your help, or, you know, painting the picture back to why healthcare the healthcare industry being complex and not streamlined like we have the power to solve that. So connecting the dots back to why you're doing what you do. And that initial problem issue that you painted.
Chloe Lannert: Question. One thing I've heard is.
Chloe Lannert: you need to have one statement that is really
Chloe Lannert: teaching the audience. Something may not know
Chloe Lannert: about the product you're also doing.
Chloe Lannert: That is not obvious, but it is also obvious now that they know.
Chloe Lannert: And
Chloe Lannert: and I guess that's kind of reflecting on- on the examples and the examples you were leaving out. Obviously very
Chloe Lannert: land. That's kind of the point. But I'm I'm trying. I'm struggling with what we are doing in kind of striking that balance. So maybe I'm completely.
Chloe Lannert: I mean, I've heard that as your point earlier, we've heard, like so many different pieces of advice on how to kind of do a great pitch. But what do you think about? Instead of trying to find that nuggets that is teaching someone kind of
Chloe Lannert: some sort of lessons or some and how do you get there? Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: well, I just I actually was gonna dive into some like how to be authentic and some do's and don'ts of storytelling. But I think something that's really hard to teach is to tell people to have a really strong point of view, and people need to connect with you personally when you're in the room.
Chloe Lannert: So how do you form this sense of authenticity effectively? And how do you share a strong point of view that can be maybe a little bit spicy in some cases. But you're well positioned to take that on because you've done your research, and you've been in the industry. So I think, if you can find that nugget of
Chloe Lannert: what is that? Take that point of view, that opinion that you have that feels authentic to you that you can share in your presentation.
Chloe Lannert: and it's also about the delivery. I would say, like.
Chloe Lannert: you don't just get in the room, and you're like, hey like, let me share a stat that you should care about right away, but more so.
Chloe Lannert: Hey.
Chloe Lannert: I'm here. We're here to get to know each other again, this is a relationship, right? I want to share a personal story of why I'm building space. Now, there's a bunch of statistics that support what I'm trying to say, but I personally have gone through this, and my take on it is that that is not working. So I don't know if this is helping. But I think it's about the point of view that you provide authentically.
Chloe Lannert: There isn't a great formula to that. I would say it just. It differs with every
Chloe Lannert: products that you build and like your personal connection to it.
Chloe Lannert: Mark, do you have anything to add? There.
Mark Achler: I I think it was really well said, I think the only thing I would add is, it's
Mark Achler: you you. What you said is, you have to be authentic like it has to feel true to you.
Mark Achler: and you have to find that balance between projecting confidence and you are. You are the master of you have that domain expertise. You know your industry inside and out.
Mark Achler: and humility, and I don't think we talk about humility enough. There's there's this balance between
Mark Achler: being a compelling leader that people want to follow and trust and believe in, and also not being a
Mark Achler: a gaping sphincter, we have a saying at math, which is, we have a no assholes rule at math like it's life is too short to deal with people that you don't like or trust or believe in, no matter how good the deal is. So, finding that balance is really important.
Chloe Lannert: I think that's what I'm trying to get to with this slide, as well as
Chloe Lannert: the one way to be authentic is to come into your room as an equal or an equal perk to whoever you're speaking to, right. Everybody has their own domain. Expertise. The Vc. In the room has their own. You have your own. So what you're trying to do is find common ground right? And one thing that you can do without feeling like you're failing is, share your learnings
Chloe Lannert: along the way, or share what you've learned in your experience as building this company, or maybe in the past that can try to showcase that you've gone through, or that you're not trying to say that you have all the answers, but rather that you have the experience. And that's what I think people want to invest in somebody that is open about the experiences they've gone through, so sharing your learnings, sharing that you don't have everything. But you're willing to pull your sleeves up and do the right thing.
Chloe Lannert: Sharing unexpected challenges, too. Yeah, go ahead.
Mark Achler: I'm sorry I didn't mean to interrupt. It's it's hard over zoom. The.
Mark Achler: So also, what we're looking for is people who are willing to be coachable.
Mark Achler: but also strong enough in their own opinion, that they believe in themselves, and also willing to be a little bit vulnerable, which is a really scary thing to do. But it's really important when you don't know something to be able to ask for help
Mark Achler: and being able to be very clear about what you're good at and what you're not good at, and a little bit of vulnerability goes a very long way.
Chloe Lannert: Great. Thank you. So yeah, transparency and authenticity. That's actually what builds trust. Right? It's not coming in the room and saying that you have all the answers. It's really about partnering together, going through the journey together, but also having the confidence right to tackle the problems.
Chloe Lannert: Okay,
Chloe Lannert: see, now, we're running short on time here, I'll just quickly do this, do's and don'ts. So I I said this earlier.
Chloe Lannert: You are not your work. Your work is not you. But your message is a combination of you and your work. So make sure that you're infusing your communication style and stories that you tell with why you are doing what you do. And this is something I like to do. Because I came into technology with no engineering degree. I didn't have computer science background. I learned all these cloud concepts
Chloe Lannert: when I started working effectively. So when I started creating content to teach developers how to use cloud, I was doing it on the same learning ground as people. And I I was just out there saying, Hey, I can learn it then, hey? If you're trying to break into the industry. Then you can, too. And I'm just learning in public. At this point I'm having fun with it, and I'm not trying to be entitled, and that message didn't alienate me in the way that I thought it actually gave me more authenticity for people to
Chloe Lannert: connect with me and want to learn with me. So I think keeping that personal connection is really important.
Chloe Lannert: Same thing with dragon, like the chances of everybody in the room, knowing exactly what you know is pretty slim, so just make sure that you are bringing everyone along with you instead of creating a barrier between you and maybe one person in the room who can't connect with you.
Chloe Lannert: And then drop tidbits of the technical details for those experts that may be in the room right? And keep that into the latter half of the conversation.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, so yeah, I think this is this is pretty much almost a wrap up. But key do is, make a personal connection. Have a point of view like I said earlier, be confident and opinionated where appropriate tell show, tell when it comes to Demos and presentations.
Chloe Lannert: And then key don'ts are just don't jump into writing or speaking, really, actually, take some time to do the homework about who you're speaking to do the audience and research don't use too many buzzwords and don't overload slides. Keep it simple. I know my slide deck was totally brought with writing, but I wanted to share these with you so that you could have it afterwards, but keep it simple with visuals, and keep key graphs where appropriate
Chloe Lannert: jump into writing or speaking. How do you write? Yeah, sorry, I mean, don't jump into. Well, what I mean is, don't jump into just
Chloe Lannert: creating the presentation without sitting down and thinking about your goal and your audience first, st and then you can go. And what I like to do is use the 5 point argument like literally creating blocks for each section, and then I can dump brain, dump into each section as an outline.
Chloe Lannert: and then from there keep delaying.
Chloe Lannert: This is more. For if you are doing different types of presentations or engagements.
Chloe Lannert: perhaps you are creating for online. You might be doing some video content. You might be on a podcast, so just keeping in mind the various considerations you need like, if you are presenting on zoom. Obviously, if you can look at the look at the camera. Stay engaged. Things don't translate through the camera as much as you think they do, so you kind of have to be more active on zoom.
Chloe Lannert: And then same for podcasts and videos, like focusing on your tonality pauses your cadence. All of that
Chloe Lannert: okay, we might not have too much time for this.
Chloe Lannert: but I can kick it off, and then we'll just open up the floor for questions and wrap up. If that works
Chloe Lannert: alright. So why don't I start, Mark? I have. I have a couple of questions for you, because you've worked with so many founders that I think everyone would be curious to know.
Chloe Lannert: Scroll down here.
Chloe Lannert: Okay.
Chloe Lannert: so how do you see empathy playing a role in the founders that you've worked with? You mentioned empathy a lot. But how does that actually play out when it comes to? Not just a pitch. But when you're just working with founders that you've really enjoyed.
Mark Achler: A really good question. The I have a saying
Mark Achler: which is Pbcs. And instead of Abcs and the Pbcs are product, business model customer acquisition and
Mark Achler: product is table stakes. You have to have a great product and most entrepreneurs focus exclusively on the product.
Mark Achler: but without the right business model.
Mark Achler: and certainly without the right customer acquisition strategy. Most companies are going to fail.
Mark Achler: And the way empathy comes into play
Mark Achler: is just because you can see a problem and build a product.
Mark Achler: It doesn't mean that you understand how to sell it. Who the customer is, what language to use. Like I I have a saying, I.
Mark Achler: There's a truism for all of us which is people gravitate to their strengths, and they avoid their weaknesses. It's true for all of us, myself included.
Mark Achler: and most entrepreneurs are not that strong in sales and in communication, and therefore they avoid it.
Mark Achler: and most fail.
Mark Achler: And so to me, as an investor, I look for entrepreneurs
Mark Achler: who really, truly take have empathy, who take the time to get to know their customers so well
Mark Achler: that they can not only articulate the problem, but how the customer thinks how the Pro. How the customer likes to buy. I'll give you an example on business models.
Mark Achler: I bet you, if I said a show of hands. What do Vcs like? Do they like services, businesses or sas businesses? Every one of you would go. Oh, we have to have a sas business.
Mark Achler: Now, the reason why Vcs like Sas businesses is because
Mark Achler: predictable recurring revenue when there's time for an exit that it'll have a higher multiple. The company will be worth more.
Mark Achler: But that's what the Vcs want.
Mark Achler: What does your customer want?
Mark Achler: A lot of customers are getting really fed up with Sas businesses, and they actually are much more comfortable with tech enabled services.
Mark Achler: I want the entrepreneur who has the empathy, who really understands not only what the problem they're trying to solve, but how to sell it, and how to reach it, how to reach their customer and talk to their customer.
Mark Achler: So sorry. That was a long answer. But but but that's like empathy is everything.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: related to that. You've talked about the concept of joyful innovation and the role of trust. So how can founders convey their passions? And how do they build? Trust with you in a way that feels authentic.
Mark Achler: Yeah. So I think of trust as a reservoir.
Mark Achler: and that every interaction I have with an entrepreneur is either adding to or taking away from trust
Mark Achler: and trust.
Mark Achler: like I said before, is a lubrication that when there are difficult moments or questions, it's trust that gives you the benefit of the doubt and lets us see our way through to whatever the problem is we're trying to solve together. Trust is everything
Mark Achler: is everything.
Mark Achler: And so what I'm looking for in every single interaction. And let me give you an example
Mark Achler: in a consumer oriented product. There's this concept of gross sales and net sales.
Mark Achler: And or, if you're selling through distribution channels and entrepreneurs oftentimes will want to present, think that by presenting their numbers inflated with the gross number
Mark Achler: before there is a net before there's cost of goods sold or distribution channel partners.
Mark Achler: I always, when an entrepreneur tells me the inflated number, and then I have to ask a question, I just say, Well, what's your net, and how much like? What are your margins, and what are your real costs? And I have to tease out and pull that information. I'm going to get it, no matter what
Mark Achler: like. I'm gonna if I'm interested, I'm gonna ask. And so by presenting information like you putting yourself in the best possible. What you think is the best possible light
Mark Achler: to me is a violation of trust, because, like, Oh, if you're not presenting this information. What else are you not presenting?
Mark Achler: Don't ever make a Vc. Have to ask the second and 3rd and 4th questions because it creates a window, and opportunity for questioning and doubt.
Chloe Lannert: Awesome. So be upfront with state of reality, and also, maybe, perhaps, how you're
Chloe Lannert: well aware of it, and you're working towards it. You can turn it into an opportunity.
Mark Achler: Always. It is what it is we're gonna find out, no matter what, so like. Why, why.
Mark Achler: you should be thinking about every interaction as an opportunity to build trust, and add to the reservoir.
Chloe Lannert: Great. Okay, I know we have about 5 min left. So does anyone have questions for Mark or or me
Chloe Lannert: just about storytelling or working with Vcs.
Chloe Lannert: Or communicating with your customers.
Chloe Lannert: Question, how do you balance communicating your
Chloe Lannert: like your vision with explaining what you do? But sometimes there's a risk of like just explaining what you do, and it's like
Chloe Lannert: who got it. But then you sort of new people.
Chloe Lannert: how do you do the but then you get too much of a vision. It's like, What's this like flowery chat? So how do you? How do you balance the 2 things? Yeah. And are you asking in the frame of a conversation where?
Chloe Lannert: Not so much in conversation, but so much you know, those- those documents that you sent out that are that you don't get to explain could be a deck, could be an app could be. Whatever like.
Chloe Lannert: I think a lot of things. It's easier when you're presenting something, because you can explain when you send out something cold. And people don't get to hear that story. Yeah, I think that's a great point that you just made is.
Chloe Lannert: people may only have the attention for right or for reading the 1st part. So you want to think about what the core message is the most important in the beginning. I think it's usually, from my opinion, like the vision and what you are doing in the space
Chloe Lannert: more than maybe
Chloe Lannert: your personal. I mean, I think you can dive into your credentials and whatnot. But I think it's really about what are we gonna do? Why are we going to solve it and like, what is the product, and why is it differentiate like the key message just packed tighter in the beginning I probably wouldn't draw out the vision for multiple slides.
Chloe Lannert: Does that make sense like you could do a condensed version of it? But let me know if anybody has a different opinion in what's worked
Chloe Lannert: their bucks.
Mark Achler: You know it was difficult for me to hear the question. I'm sorry if you could repeat it.
Chloe Lannert: So the question was in cold outreach, let's say, often online and emails.
Chloe Lannert: what is the right balance between sharing your vision
Chloe Lannert: versus you said your role, what you do personally, how you're connected to it, what the actual company does. Okay?
Chloe Lannert: So my answer was, oftentimes you have limited
Chloe Lannert: attention, span or opportunity for people to pay attention at all. So I I was saying you could do a condensed version and pack a lot of that information at least just the vision and what you do. The key takeaways
Chloe Lannert: answer that question quickly, upfront.
Mark Achler: Okay, the mind of a Vc.
Mark Achler: How big is this opportunity?
Mark Achler: Do you have an unfair advantage in sales and customer acquisition, like.
Mark Achler: I want to know not only your domain expertise, but I really want to know is.
Mark Achler: what are your sales chops? How are you going to bring this product to market, and do you have?
Mark Achler: I'll give you an example.
Mark Achler: My partner, Troy Hennikoff, that you know
Mark Achler: I was a Vc. When he was raising when he was starting his his sure payroll, his company, and I ended up being his lead investor, and he came to me. He was all excited. They were the 1st
Mark Achler: Internet based Payroll Company, and he was all excited about it. And he said, and we were, we're just bid on this great deal with Wells Fargo, where Wells Fargo is going to make us our wait label, payroll service, and my answer to him. If you ever get a chance to see him again or ask him, I said, great!
Mark Achler: If Wells Fargo is your distribution channel, I'll be your lead investor when you have the Wells Fargo contract signed. Come on back.
Mark Achler: And and Troy. What? Oh, man! Cause now he had to get that contract signed.
Mark Achler: But that's what was important to me. What was important to me was
Mark Achler: that he knew how to sell, and he had distribution partners, and he had validation.
Mark Achler: Think pink like a Vc. Would think
Mark Achler: I don't know if that helps. But that's
Mark Achler: that's that's like whisper. Talking about customer acquisition is like whispering sweet nothings in my ear
Mark Achler: like you want to get my attention. Show me an unfair advantage in customer acquisition. Most entrepreneurs don't talk about sales.
Mark Achler: You want to get Vc. Money. Talk about sales.
Chloe Lannert: Be interested to see how you've seen startups change in relation. To know customer acquisition is more important.
Chloe Lannert: but
Chloe Lannert: starts everything so much faster, and your customer acquisition is bigger. But like, should people be sort of looking at
Chloe Lannert: in terms of how to keep up with that pace
Chloe Lannert: when it comes to customer acquisition. I mean, I've seen people use all sorts of new tactics. I would say. The key thing, I would say is
Chloe Lannert: actually be careful and authentic. I've actually seen things go sideways when people
Chloe Lannert: actually use AI tools to do customer acquisition and try to keep up with pace.
Chloe Lannert: So I think it's about carefully scaling in a way where you are using tools to help you out, but make sure that at the end of the day, when somebody is speaking to your team, who is an actual Icp or interested customer they are talking to. They are talking to your team. You're treating them like a loyal potential customers that that they are, because those initial clients are going to be the most important
Chloe Lannert: for you in the beginning, before you start to do mass
Chloe Lannert: product like growth kind of activities. So I guess I don't. That's not a great answer. But I would just say, like, Stay cautious when you see other people scaling quickly. Just remember that there are some disadvantages that they don't share online.
Mark Achler: For sure. Hey? Hey, Stephanie, let's go back to business model for a second second.
Mark Achler: Do you know what
Mark Achler: the inflection point for? Google was in the early days. What was the moment that Google took off like really took off
Mark Achler: and from a business model perspective? Do you know.
Chloe Lannert: Apps.
Mark Achler: What's that?
Chloe Lannert: That's.
Mark Achler: Yeah, but what but specifically add words? It was the the business model
Mark Achler: where they created the adwords bidding system, the acquisition, the the bidding system the platform that allowed people to bid on specific ads.
Mark Achler: But when they put in adwords, that was when the the it really took off, when they figured out how to monetize. It's the business model, too, that really matters here.
Chloe Lannert: But
Chloe Lannert: alright! Well, I know that was 2 full hours. Thanks for sticking with us, and I can share a Pdf of the slides for everyone who's interested. And then just you have our contact information.
Chloe Lannert: Wanna meet up. Thanks. Thanks. So much.
Mark Achler: Thanks everybody. Thank you, Stephanie.
Chloe Lannert: Thank you. Mark.
Mark Achler: Yeah, I'm sorry to. You know it was hard being on zoom I was trying to figure out the cadence of when to interrupt or not interrupt, so I'm sorry if it wasn't as smooth.
Chloe Lannert: Good. Always appreciate your insight.